docs: spec updates for arbitrary blob signing (#811)
notaryproject/notation: specs/commandline/blob.md

## Outline

### notation blob command

```text
Sign, Inspect, and Verify signatures associates with arbitrary blobs.

Usage:
  notation blob [command]

Available Commands:
  sign      produce a detached signature for a given blob
  inspect   inspect a signature associated with a blob
  verify    verify a signature associated with a blob

Flags:
  -h, --help   help for blob
```

### notation blob sign

```text
Produce a detached signature for a given blob

Usage:
  notation blob sign [flags] <blob_path>

Flags:

>   -s,  --signature path             output location of the detached signature

Reviewer: Is this a required flag? If it is, we might need to update the usage schema. If it's not a required flag, what's the default behavior?

Author: It is a required flag. I will updated the schema.

notation blob sign --user-metadata io.wabbit-networks.buildId=123 --user-metadata io.wabbit-networks.buildTime=1672944615 --signature /tmp/my-blob-signature.sig /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

### Sign a blob with media type

```shell
notation blob sign --media-type <media type> --signature /tmp/my-blob-signature.sig /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

### Sign a blob and specify the signature expiry duration, for example 24 hours

```shell
notation blob sign --expiry 24h --signature /tmp/my-blob-signature.sig /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

### Sign a blob using a specified signing key

```shell
# List signing keys to get the key name
notation key list

# Sign a container image using the specified key name
notation blob sign --key <key_name> --signature /tmp/my-blob-signature.sig /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

## Inspect detached blob signatures

### Display details of the given detached blob signature and its associated certificate properties

```text
notation blob inspect [flags] /tmp/my-blob-signature.sig
```

### Inspect the given detached blob signature

```shell
# Prerequisites: Signatures is produced by notation blob sign command
notation blob inspect /tmp/my-blob-signature.sig
```

An example output:
```shell

> Inspecting /tmp/my-blob-signature.sig

Reviewer 2: How does `notation` detect the signature format? Should `notation` print out the signature format (`jws` / `cose`)?

Reviewer 2: Same question for `verify`.

Author: Good question. I suggest Notation gets the signature format from the file extension. Something like `my-blob-signature.sig.cose`, `my-blob-signature.sig.jws`

For OCI, the format is an unsigned attribute that is present in the signature manifest (in other words, outside the signature envelope). Similarly, for Blobs, the format will come from outside the envelope i.e. file extension.

An alternative is encoding the format within the signature envelope file. Either json encoding or some sort of armoring like below.

```
{
    "mediaType": "application/cose",
    "signatureEnvelope": "<Base64 encoded envelope>"
}
``` 

or

```
-----START COSE SIGNATURE----
<Base64 encoded envelope>
-----END COSE SIGNATURE----
```

However, these two options will require Notation to parse the signature file in order to read the envelope. And also, tools other than Notation will not work out of the box as they do not understand the wrapping method,

Reviewer 3: @rgnote Quick question on the file extension method:
Say a verifier receives a signature with name `my-blob-signature.sig`, how would notation tell which signature envelope format should be used? Because a signer can always rename their signature files after signing. 
Basically, my concern here is that Notation verification is going to be dependent on the signature's file name, which is not strictly controlled by Notation.
/cc: @priteshbandi

Reviewer: @rgnote I have a question about the UX. 

```sh
SIGNATURE_NAME=blob.sig
notation blob sign --signature blob.sig ./filename
```
Then, when the user wants to verify the signature:
```sh
notation blob verify $SIGNATURE_NAME.jws
```
How does the user determine the suffix of the signature? I believe this design elevates the complexity of using the Notation CLI. Users will either have to use `ls` to scan the directory to find the actual name or delve into our documentation to understand the naming suffix.

Author: @Two-Hearts 

We discussed about scenario on the call. Yes, a user can change the file name (including its extension) however they like. We can't assume that users won't change extensions. Since extension is only a hint about the format, this is not a big problem for Notation. The proposed solution is
1. If there is a valid extension, Notation will use it
2. If there is no valid extension, Notation will guess the format by bruteforcing all the available formats it knows (this is already being done in notation-core-go)
3. If none of the above methods work, Notation errors out saying unknown format.

Author: @JeyJeyGao 

We picked `--signature` flag when we had no idea about how to pass signature format data with the signature itself. Now that we decided to go with file extensions, we need to update the flag name. I suggest we change it to `--signature-name`.

For example, let's say user gives `xyz` for the `--signature-name` field. 
On the signing side, Notation will write the signature to `xyz.sig.cose` or `xyz.sig.jws` to the CWD. 

On the verification side, notation will expect `--signature-path` argument, to which a user need to provide the location of the signature. Like `notation blob verify ./xyz.sig.cose`.

Reviewer 3: > 2. If there is no valid extension, Notation will guess the format by bruteforcing all the available formats it knows (this is already being done in notation-core-go)

I see, so we are keeping step 2. I thought we were going to remove it on the call. SGTM.

Reviewer: @rgnote Then the UX will be:
```sh
SIGNATURE_NAME=xyz
notation blob sign --signature-name $SIGNATURE_NAME ./filename
```
Verify the signature:
```sh
notation blob verify $SIGNATURE_NAME.sig.jws
```
In other words, the user must know the complete name of the signature; otherwise, the notation blob verify command cannot locate the signature file. How can the user determine the full name of the signature? They can either obtain it from the output of the `notation blob sign command` or figure it out on their own.

@yizha1 @FeynmanZhou Could you provide some insights from the perspective of a PM?

Reviewer 4: From a verifier point of view, I don't see big problems, since verifier needs to put the full path of the signature file. And the sign command will output the full file path. But it's better to describe it in the document, that the signature name will be added with suffixes based on the signature format that users choose.

# notation policy

## Description

Use `notation blob` command to sign, verify, and inspect signatures associated with arbitrary blobs. Notation can sign and verify any arbitrary bag of bits like zip files, documents, executables, etc. When a user signs a blob, `notation` produces a detached signature, which the user can transport/distribute in any medium that the user prefers along with the original blob. On the verification side, Notation can verify the blob's signature and assert that the blob has not been tampered with during its transmission. For more details, see [trust policy specification and examples](https://github.com/notaryproject/specifications/blob/main/specs/signing-and-verification-workflow.md#blob-signing-workflow).

## Outline

### notation blob command

```text
Sign, Inspect, and Verify signatures associates with arbitrary blobs.

Usage:
  notation blob [command]

Available Commands:
  sign      produce a detached signature for a given blob

>   inspect   inspect a signature associated with a blob

Author: I sorted them based on user workflows. I don't think we follow the convention of alphabetical sorting ([example](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation/blob/main/specs/notation-cli.md))

>   inspect   inspect a signature associated with a blob

Author: I think you are right. Flipped the order.

  -s, --signature path        location of the detached signature
      --media-type string     optional media type of the blob to verify
      --policy-scope string   optional policy scope to verify against. If not provided, notation verifies against wildcard policy if it exists.
  -m, --user-metadata stringArray   user defined {key}={value} pairs that must be present in the signature for successful verification if provided
  -o, --output string         output format, options: 'json', 'text' (default "text")
  -d, --debug                 debug mode
  -v, --verbose               verbose mode
  -h, --help                  help for inspect
```

## Usage

## Produce detached blob signatures

### Sign a blob by adding a new key

```shell
# Prerequisites:
# - A signing plugin is installed. See plugin documentation (https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/plugin-extensibility.md) for more details.
# - Configure the signing plugin as instructed by plugin vendor.

# Add a default signing key referencing the remote key identifier, and the plugin associated with it.
notation key add --default --name <key_name> --plugin <plugin_name> --id <remote_key_id>

# sign a blob

> notation blob sign --signature-name my-blob-signature /tmp/my-blob.bin

Author: That is correct. Is this functionality absolutely needed? Would do you suggest adding a flag for `signature-directory`?

> notation blob sign --signature-name my-blob-signature /tmp/my-blob.bin

Author: cose example is present at line 122

> notation blob sign --signature-name my-blob-signature /tmp/my-blob.bin

Reviewer 2: I think the original `--signature` is good enough and it is consistent with `notation blob verify`.

> notation blob sign --signature-name my-blob-signature /tmp/my-blob.bin

Reviewer 2: or `--signature-prefix` can be a candidate if `.sig` is keep.
or `--signature-name` allows folders like `foo/bar/my-blob-signature`.

> notation blob sign --signature-name my-blob-signature /tmp/my-blob.bin

Author: @shizhMSFT 
IMO these two options can be confusing. `--signature-prefix` if fine if it is just accepting the prefix for the signature file name. But if it also accepts a path, then the flag name is not very apparent.
`--signature-name` accepting a path is also bit misleading and error prone.

If we want to support arbitrary paths, I recommend doing this

1. Accept an optional flag `--signature-directory`
2. If it is provided, notation will write the <source file name>+".sig.jws" to that directory. If not, then writes to the currently working directory.
This way, the name of the file is not configurable but the path is. I think this is better than providing two many flags for configuring both name and path. 

LMK your thoughts.

> notation blob sign --signature-name my-blob-signature /tmp/my-blob.bin

Reviewer 5: I think it would be better to enable users choose which folder they want to generate the signature since this is a common scenario. 
For 2, is it really necessary to make the signature envelop type ".sig.jws" as the file extension name?

> notation blob sign --signature-name my-blob-signature /tmp/my-blob.bin

Reviewer 4: @rgnote Here is the discussion result from community meeting 11/7/2023

- Notation controls the signature file name, for example, use the file name of the blob file + ".sig.jws". Then by default, the signature is stored on the current directory.
- Provide an option for users to specify the signature directory
- If users sign the blob for the 2nd time, overwrite the existing signature by asking whether users are ok with it, if users are OK, then overwriting the existing signature; if not, users can specify a different directory for storing the signature.
- consider `cp` behavior for output file path resolution. 
        - Should notation create a fully nested path or not? 
        - If its directory then should we outupt {dir}/{pattern}.{ext} 
            - if not, should we output the file to the output path and consider that it's a fully qualified filename.
        - `cp` does not create nested paths so maybe to keep this consistent with other tools and avoid surprises. notation could follow the same pattern of not creating nested paths. 

/cc: @shizhMSFT @Two-Hearts @priteshbandi feel free to provide additional comments.

> notation blob sign --signature-name my-blob-signature /tmp/my-blob.bin

Author: Perfect.

Two comments on the above proposal though.
>  If users sign the blob for the 2nd time, overwrite the existing signature by asking whether users are ok with it, if users are OK, then overwriting the existing signature; if not, users can specify a different directory for storing the signature.

I'm not a big fan interactive CLI tools as they make automation hard to achieve. That being said, we should do this.
1. Let notation fail by default if there is a signature file already
2. Provide an optional `--overwrite` flag for suppressing the above failure

> consider cp behavior for output file path resolution.

I think we should keep this behavior simple. Notation being smarter to proactively create non-existing directories or writing signatures directly when the path is not a directory, etc will only add sharp edges. I would say, let's start with the basic functionality i.e. fail if the provided path is not a directory or does not exist. This is not a one-way door. If there is enough demand for handling non-existing directories or configuring signature file name, then we can add them later.

> notation blob sign --signature-name my-blob-signature /tmp/my-blob.bin

Reviewer 4: @rgnote  I am OK with it. @shizhMSFT @patrickzheng200 @priteshbandi any comments?

> notation blob sign --signature-name my-blob-signature /tmp/my-blob.bin

Reviewer 6: For overwriting signature we can support two mode:
1. Without `--overwrite` flag; ask for confirmation from user
2. With `--overwrite` flag; overwrite file without any confirmation prompt.

> notation blob sign --signature-name my-blob-signature /tmp/my-blob.bin

Author: Decided on the notary call to go with `--force`, to be consisted with rest of Notation UX.

```

An example for a successful signing:

```console
$ notation blob sign --signature-name my-blob-signature /tmp/my-blob.bin
Successfully signed /tmp/my-blob.bin

> Signature written to ./my-blob-signature.sig.jws

Author: Correct. `.sig` is technically not an extension. It is just there to indicate the user that it is a signature file.

KEY                         VALUE
io.wabbit-networks.buildId  123
```

An example of output messages for an unsuccessful verification:

```text
Error: signature verification failed: unable to find specified metadata in the given signature
```

### Verify the signature with media type

Use the `--media-type` flag to verify that signature is for the provided media-type.

```shell
# Verify the signature and verify that io.wabbit-networks.buildId=123 is present in the signed payload
notation blob verify --media-type application/my-media-octet-stream --signature /tmp/my-blob-signature.sig.jws /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

An example of output messages for a successful verification:

```text
Successfully verified signature /tmp/my-blob-signature.sig.jws

The blob is of media type `application/my-media-octet-stream`.

```

An example of output messages for an unsuccessful verification:

```text
Error: signature verification failed: The blob is not of media type `application/my-media-octet-stream`.
```

### Verify the signature using a policy scope

Use the `--policy-scope` flag to select a Policy scope to verify the signature against.

```shell

> notation blob verify --policy-scope my-blob-verification-selector --signature /tmp/my-blob-signature.sig.jws /tmp/my-blob.bin

Reviewer 4: For consistency, maybe you can consider using the scope from the above policy example. my-blob-verification-selector doesn't exist.

Author: Good call.

  -h,  --help                       help for sign
```

### notation blob inspect

```text
Inspect a signature associated with a blob

Usage:
  notation blob inspect [flags] <signature_path>

Flags:
  -o, --output string         output format, options: 'json', 'text' (default "text")
  -d, --debug                 debug mode
  -v, --verbose               verbose mode
  -h, --help                  help for inspect
```

### notation blob verify

```text
Verify a signature associated with a blob

Usage:
  notation blob verify [flags] --signature <signature_path> <blob_path>

Flags:
  -s, --signature path        location of the detached signature
      --media-type string     optional media type of the blob to verify
      --policy-scope string   optional policy scope to verify against. If not provided, notation verifies against wildcard policy if it exists.
  -m, --user-metadata stringArray   user defined {key}={value} pairs that must be present in the signature for successful verification if provided
  -o, --output string         output format, options: 'json', 'text' (default "text")
  -d, --debug                 debug mode
  -v, --verbose               verbose mode

>   -h, --help                  help for inspect

Reviewer 3: You might want to add the `--plugin-config` flag because user could use a plugin for verification.

notation blob sign --user-metadata io.wabbit-networks.buildId=123 --user-metadata io.wabbit-networks.buildTime=1672944615 --signature-name my-blob-signature /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

### Sign a blob and specify the media type for the blob

```shell
notation blob sign --media-type <media type> --signature-name my-blob-signature /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

### Sign a blob and specify the signature expiry duration, for example 24 hours

```shell
notation blob sign --expiry 24h --signature-name my-blob-signature /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

### Sign a blob using a specified signing key

```shell
# List signing keys to get the key name
notation key list

# Sign a container image using the specified key name
notation blob sign --key <key_name> --signature-name my-blob-signature /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

## Inspect detached blob signatures

### Display details of the given detached blob signature and its associated certificate properties

```text
notation blob inspect [flags] /tmp/my-blob-signature.sig.jws
```

### Inspect the given detached blob signature

```shell
# Prerequisites: Signatures is produced by notation blob sign command

> notation blob inspect /tmp/my-blob-signature.sig.jws

Reviewer 3: Can you add an example of the following command: `notation blob inspect /tmp/my-blob-signature.sig`, where `my-blob-signature.sig` is a valid signature following the Notation spec.

Author: This is what we have at the moment, correct? Can you please clarify how the command you provided is different from the existing one?

If you are referring to verifying a signature without signature format extension, I do not think that is something worth calling out in the docs. Notation should recommend users to keep extensions. Notation supporting no-extension signature files is only a convenience but should not be encouraged as it increases verification latencies.

                "x509.subject: C=US, ST=WA, L=Seattle, O=wabbit-networks.io, OU=Security Tools"
            ]
        },
        {
            "name": "skip-blob-verification-policy",
            "scopes": [ "blob:skip-blob-verification-selector" ],
            "signatureVerification": {
              "level" : "skip" 
            }
        },
        {
            "name": "wildcard-blob-verification-policy",
            "scopes": [ "blob:*" ],
            "signatureVerification": {
              "level" : "audit"
            },
            "trustStores": ["ca:acme-rockets"],
            "trustedIdentities": ["*"]
        }
    ]
}
```

### Verify the detached signature of a blob

Configure trust store and trust policy properly before using `notation blob verify` command.

```shell

# Prerequisites: Signature is produced on the filesystem from `notation blob sign` command.
# Configure trust store by adding a certificate file into trust store named "wabbit-network" of type "ca"
notation certificate add --type ca --store wabbit-networks wabbit-networks.crt

# Create a JSON file named "trustpolicy.json" under directory "{NOTATION_CONFIG}".

# Verify the detached signature

> notation blob verify --signature /tmp/my-blob-signature.sig.jws /tmp/my-blob.bin

Reviewer 3: Same here, can you add an example of command `notation blob verify --signature /tmp/my-blob-signature.sig /tmp/my-blob.bin`?

Author: Same comment as above.

```text
Successfully verified signature /tmp/my-blob-signature.sig.jws

The blob signature is having the following user metadata.

KEY                         VALUE
io.wabbit-networks.buildId  123
```

An example of output messages for an unsuccessful verification:

```text
Error: signature verification failed: unable to find specified metadata in the given signature
```

### Verify the signature with media type

Use the `--media-type` flag to verify that signature is for the provided media-type.

```shell
# Verify the signature and verify that application/my-media-octet-stream is the media type
notation blob verify --media-type application/my-media-octet-stream --signature /tmp/my-blob-signature.sig.jws /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

An example of output messages for a successful verification:

```text
Successfully verified signature /tmp/my-blob-signature.sig.jws

The blob is of media type `application/my-media-octet-stream`.

```

An example of output messages for an unsuccessful verification:

```text
Error: signature verification failed: The blob is not of media type `application/my-media-octet-stream`.
```

### Verify the signature using a policy scope

> Use the `--policy-scope` flag to select a Policy scope to verify the signature against.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Use the `--policy-scope` flag to select a policy scope to verify the signature against.
```

```shell
notation blob verify --policy-scope blob-verification-selector --signature /tmp/my-blob-signature.sig.jws /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

An example of output messages for a successful verification:

```text
Successfully verified signature /tmp/my-blob-signature.sig.jws using policy scope `blob-verification-selector`

```
An example of output messages for an unsuccessful verification:

```text

> Error: signature verification failed for Policy scope `blob-verification-selector`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Error: signature verification failed for policy scope `blob-verification-selector`
```

> # notation policy

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
# notation blob
```

## Description

> Use `notation blob` command to sign, verify, and inspect signatures associated with arbitrary blobs. Notation can sign and verify any arbitrary bag of bits like zip files, documents, executables, etc. When a user signs a blob, `notation` produces a detached signature, which the user can transport/distribute in any medium that the user prefers along with the original blob. On the verification side, Notation can verify the blob's signature and assert that the blob has not been tampered with during its transmission. For more details, see [trust policy specification and examples](https://github.com/notaryproject/specifications/blob/main/specs/signing-and-verification-workflow.md#blob-signing-workflow).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Use `notation blob` command to sign, verify, and inspect signatures associated with arbitrary blobs. Notation can sign and verify any arbitrary bag of bits like zip files, documents, executables, etc. When a user signs a blob, `notation` produces a detached signature, which the user can transport/distribute using any medium that the user prefers along with the original blob. On the verification side, Notation can verify the blob's signature and assert that the blob has not been tampered during transmission. For more details on how to create trust policy for verifying blob, see [trust policy specification and examples](https://github.com/notaryproject/specifications/blob/main/specs/signing-and-verification-workflow.md#blob-signing-workflow).
```

## Outline

### notation blob command

```text
Sign, inspect, and verify signatures associated with arbitrary blobs.

Usage:
  notation blob [command]

Available Commands:
  inspect   inspect a signature associated with a blob
  sign      produce a detached signature for a given blob
  verify    verify a signature associated with a blob

Flags:
  -h, --help   help for blob
```

### notation blob sign

```text

> Produce a detached signature for a given blob. Signature file will be written to the currently working directory with blob file name + ".sig" + signature format as the file extension. For example, signature file name for "myBlob.bin" will be "myBlob.bin.sig.jws" for JWS signature format or "myBlob.bin.sig.cose" for COSE signature format.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Produce a signature for a given blob. A detached signature file will be written to the currently working directory with blob file name + ".sig" + signature format as the file extension. For example, signature file name for "myBlob.bin" will be "myBlob.bin.sig.jws" for JWS signature format or "myBlob.bin.sig.cose" for COSE signature format.
```

Usage:
  notation blob sign [flags] <blob_path>

Flags:

>   -sd,  --signature-directory path  optional path where the detached signature needs to be placed (default: currently working directory) 

Reviewer 4: To alignment with flags below
```suggestion
  -sd, --signature-directory path  optional path where the detached signature needs to be placed (default: currently working directory) 
```

Reviewer 6: I think the utility which we use to generate cli only allows for single character short flags.

Author: From UX perspective, `sd` makes sense. If the library doesn't support, we can revisit this.

>   -d,  --signature-directory string optional path where the blob signature needs to be placed (default: currently working directory) 

Reviewer 6: `-d` conflicts with debug flag. I would suggest dropping short flag.

Reviewer 3: +1

Reviewer 2: +1

  -k,  --key string                 signing key name, for a key previously added to notation's key list. This is mutually exclusive with the --id and --plugin flags
       --plugin string              signing plugin name. This is mutually exclusive with the --key flag
       --plugin-config stringArray  {key}={value} pairs that are passed as it is to a plugin, refer plugin's documentation to set appropriate values.
       --signature-format string    signature envelope format, options: "jws", "cose" (default "jws")
       --force                      skip user confirmation and force overwrite the existing detached signature file 
  -m,  --user-metadata stringArray  {key}={value} pairs that are added to the signature payload
  -d,  --debug                      debug mode
  -v,  --verbose                    verbose mode
  -h,  --help                       help for sign
```

### notation blob inspect

```text
Inspect a signature associated with a blob

Usage:
  notation blob inspect [flags] <signature_path>

Flags:
  -o, --output string         output format, options: 'json', 'text' (default "text")
  -d, --debug                 debug mode
  -v, --verbose               verbose mode

>   -h, --help                  help for inspect

Reviewer 3: @rgnote Maybe you forgot to update this one?

```

### notation blob verify

```text
Verify a signature associated with a blob

Usage:
  notation blob verify [flags] --signature <signature_path> <blob_path>

Flags:
  -s, --signature string      location of the blob signature file
      --media-type string     optional media type of the blob to verify

>       --policy-scope string   optional policy scope to verify against. If not provided, notation verifies against wildcard policy if it exists.

Reviewer 3: We need to be more clear here. Because a valid version 1.1 trust policy can have two different trust policy statements,  one of them has scope `[oci:*]`, and the other one has scope `[blob:*]`. For `notation blob verify` command, when `--policy-scope` is not set, only `[blob:*]` will be used right? In other words, if `[blob:*]` is missing, even if the user set up `[oci:*]`, the verification should fail?

Author: The proposal has evolved from scopes to separate policy documents. See https://hackmd.io/@-KPyDkW6QfGA-pldFa13pA/ByuHffALa

I will update this PR with the new CX

  -m, --user-metadata stringArray   user defined {key}={value} pairs that must be present in the signature for successful verification if provided
      --plugin-config stringArray   {key}={value} pairs that are passed as it is to a plugin, if the verification is associated with a verification plugin, refer plugin documentation to set appropriate values
  -o, --output string         output format, options: 'json', 'text' (default "text")
  -d, --debug                 debug mode
  -v, --verbose               verbose mode
  -h, --help                  help for inspect
```

## Usage

> ## Produce detached blob signatures

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
## Produce blob signatures
```

### Sign a blob by adding a new key

```shell
# Prerequisites:
# - A signing plugin is installed. See plugin documentation (https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/plugin-extensibility.md) for more details.
# - Configure the signing plugin as instructed by plugin vendor.

# Add a default signing key referencing the remote key identifier, and the plugin associated with it.
notation key add --default --name <key_name> --plugin <plugin_name> --id <remote_key_id>

# sign a blob
notation blob sign /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

An example for a successful signing:

```console
$ notation blob sign /tmp/my-blob.bin

> Successfully signed /tmp/my-blob.bin
> Signature file written to ./my-blob.bin.sig.jws

Reviewer 6: nit: Should we just say 
```suggestion
Signature file written to ./my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

Author: As an engineer, I love to see outputs that have "Successfully" in it. :)
I think we can keep it to indicate that signing had completed successfully.

```

### Sign a blob by generating the signature in a particular directory
```shell
$ notation blob sign --signature-directory /tmp/xyz/sigs /tmp/my-blob.bin
Successfully signed /tmp/my-blob.bin
Signature file written to /tmp/xyz/sigs/my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

### Sign a blob and skip user confirmations when overwriting existing signature
```shell
$ notation blob sign --force /tmp/my-blob.bin
Successfully signed /tmp/my-blob.bin
Signature file overwritten to ./my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

> ### Sign a blob with on-demand remote key

Reviewer 7: What does on-demand mean here? Can we just say sign with (named) plugin?

notation blob sign --user-metadata io.wabbit-networks.buildId=123 /tmp/my-blob.bin

# sign a blob and add user-metadata io.wabbit-networks.buildId=123 and io.wabbit-networks.buildTime=1672944615 to the payload
notation blob sign --user-metadata io.wabbit-networks.buildId=123 --user-metadata io.wabbit-networks.buildTime=1672944615 /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

### Sign a blob and specify the media type for the blob

```shell
notation blob sign --media-type <media type> /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

### Sign a blob and specify the signature expiry duration, for example 24 hours

```shell
notation blob sign --expiry 24h /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

### Sign a blob using a specified signing key

```shell
# List signing keys to get the key name
notation key list

# Sign a container image using the specified key name
notation blob sign --key <key_name> /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

## Inspect detached blob signatures

### Display details of the given detached blob signature and its associated certificate properties

```text
notation blob inspect [flags] /tmp/my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

### Inspect the given detached blob signature

```shell
# Prerequisites: Signatures is produced by notation blob sign command

> notation blob inspect /tmp/my-blob.bin.sig.jws

Reviewer 3: Just curious, how does Notation tell apart signatures generated by `blob sign` and `sign` again? In other words, is there a fundamental difference that's ALWAYS making `detached signature` and `OCI signature` mutually exclusive? 

Because from the spec [PR](https://github.com/notaryproject/specifications/pull/283/files#diff-a4742f16cbae7ff1d39bafc711c835c1133dea5722c1922e522022ebdefac9f5), it seems that given a signature file, it is possible that it's both a valid `detached signature` and a valid `OCI signature`. If I pull an `OCI signature` from a registry and save it as a file, then I use `notation blob inspect` to inspect it, would Notation return an error?

Author: > If I pull an OCI signature from a registry and save it as a file, then I use notation blob inspect to inspect it, would Notation return an error?

No. And that is the right behavior and both OCI and Blob signatures follow the same scheme. 

>  I think for inspect, we could just add a new flag to cover all the scenarios: notation inspect --blob /tmp/my-blob.bin.sig.jws

The signature scheme is not different but aspects like signature format type, OCI signature manifest vs no manifest for blobs, etc. are couple of differences. It was decided in the Notary meeting to introduce `blob` sub-command to tackle these differences.

        │   │   ├── issued to: wabbit-com Software
        │   │   ├── issued by: wabbit-com Software Root Certificate Authority
        │   │   └── expiry: Sun Jul 06 20:50:17 2025
        │   ├── SHA256 fingerprint: 4b9fa61d5aed0fabbc7cb8fe2efd049da57957ed44f2b98f7863ce18effd3b89
        │   │   ├── issued to: wabbit-com Software Code Signing PCA 2010
        │   │   ├── issued by: wabbit-com Software Root Certificate Authority
        │   │   └── expiry: Sun Jul 06 20:50:17 2025
        │   └── SHA256 fingerprint: ea3939548ad0c0a86f164ab8b97858854238c797f30bddeba6cb28688f3f6536
        │       ├── issued to: wabbit-com Software Root Certificate Authority
        │       ├── issued by: wabbit-com Software Root Certificate Authority
        │       └── expiry: Sat Jun 23 22:04:01 2035
        └── signed artifact
            ├── media type: application/vnd.oci.image.manifest.v1+json
            ├── digest: sha256:b94d27b9934d3e08a52e52d7da7fac484efe37a5380ee9088f7ace2efcde9
            └── size: 16724
```

### Inspect the given blob signature with JSON Output

```shell
notation blob inspect -o json /tmp/my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

## Verify blob signatures

> The `notation blob verify` command can be used to verify blob signatures. In order to verify signatures, user will need to setup a trust policy file with Policies scoped to blobs. Below are three examples of how a policy configuration file can be setup for verifying blob signatures.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The `notation blob verify` command can be used to verify blob signatures. In order to verify signatures, user will need to setup a trust policy file with Policies for blobs. Below are three examples of how a policy configuration file can be setup for verifying blob signatures.
```

> The `notation blob verify` command can be used to verify blob signatures. In order to verify signatures, user will need to setup a policy configuration file with Policies scoped to blobs. Below are three examples of how a policy configuration file can be setup for verifying blob signatures.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The `notation blob verify` command can be used to verify blob signatures. In order to verify signatures, user will need to setup a trust policy file with Policies scoped to blobs. Below are three examples of how a policy configuration file can be setup for verifying blob signatures.
```

                "x509.subject: C=US, ST=WA, L=Seattle, O=wabbit-networks.io, OU=Security Tools"
            ]
        },
        {
            "name": "skip-blob-verification-policy",
            "scopes": [ "blob:skip-blob-verification-selector" ],
            "signatureVerification": {
              "level" : "skip" 
            }
        },
        {
            "name": "wildcard-blob-verification-policy",
            "scopes": [ "blob:*" ],
            "signatureVerification": {
              "level" : "audit"
            },
            "trustStores": ["ca:acme-rockets"],
            "trustedIdentities": ["*"]
        }
    ]
}
```

### Verify the detached signature of a blob

Configure trust store and trust policy properly before using `notation blob verify` command.

```shell

# Prerequisites: Signature is produced on the filesystem from `notation blob sign` command.
# Configure trust store by adding a certificate file into trust store named "wabbit-network" of type "ca"
notation certificate add --type ca --store wabbit-networks wabbit-networks.crt

# Create a JSON file named "trustpolicy.json" under directory "{NOTATION_CONFIG}".

# Verify the detached signature

> notation blob verify --signature /tmp/my-blob.bin.sig.jws /tmp/my-blob.bin

Reviewer 6: qq: will we allow multiple value for --signature?

Author: Probably. When that happens, the `--signature` flag can accept comma separated signature files.

Reviewer 6: Could we please document this and outline its expected output?

In my opinion, to start we should allow only single signature verification.

Author: Let's differ it to when we actually support multiple signatures.

Author: To clarify, we are not allowing multiple signatures in this spec.

```

An example of output messages for a successful verification:

```text
Successfully verified signature /tmp/my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

### Verify the signature with user metadata

Use the `--user-metadata` flag to verify that provided key-value pairs are present in the payload of the valid signature.

```shell
# Verify the signature and verify that io.wabbit-networks.buildId=123 is present in the signed payload
notation blob verify --user-metadata io.wabbit-networks.buildId=123 --signature /tmp/my-blob.bin.sig.jws /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

An example of output messages for a successful verification:

```text
Successfully verified signature /tmp/my-blob.bin.sig.jws

> The blob signature is having the following user metadata.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The signature contains the following user metadata:
```

KEY                         VALUE
io.wabbit-networks.buildId  123
```

An example of output messages for an unsuccessful verification:

```text
Error: signature verification failed: unable to find specified metadata in the given signature
```

### Verify the signature with media type

Use the `--media-type` flag to verify that signature is for the provided media-type.

```shell
# Verify the signature and verify that application/my-media-octet-stream is the media type
notation blob verify --media-type application/my-media-octet-stream --signature /tmp/my-blob.bin.sig.jws /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

An example of output messages for a successful verification:

```text
Successfully verified signature /tmp/my-blob.bin.sig.jws

The blob is of media type `application/my-media-octet-stream`.

```

An example of output messages for an unsuccessful verification:

```text

> Error: signature verification failed: The blob's media type `application/xyz` and not matching `application/my-media-octet-stream`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Error: Signature verification failed due to a mismatch in the blob's media type 'application/xyz' and the expected type 'application/my-media-octet-stream'.
```

```

### Verify the signature using a policy scope

Use the `--policy-scope` flag to select a policy scope to verify the signature against.

```shell
notation blob verify --policy-scope blob-verification-selector --signature /tmp/my-blob.bin.sig.jws /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

An example of output messages for a successful verification:

```text
Successfully verified signature /tmp/my-blob.bin.sig.jws using policy scope `blob-verification-selector`

```
An example of output messages for an unsuccessful verification:

```text

> Error: signature verification failed for Policy scope `blob-verification-selector`

Reviewer 3: nit:
```suggestion
Error: signature verification failed for policy scope `blob-verification-selector`
```

      --plugin-config stringArray   {key}={value} pairs that are passed as it is to a plugin, if the verification is associated with a verification plugin, refer plugin documentation to set appropriate values
  -o, --output string         output format, options: 'json', 'text' (default "text")
  -d, --debug                 debug mode
  -v, --verbose               verbose mode
  -h, --help                  help for inspect
```

## Usage

## Produce blob signatures

### Sign a blob by adding a new key

```shell
# Prerequisites:
# - A signing plugin is installed. See plugin documentation (https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/plugin-extensibility.md) for more details.
# - Configure the signing plugin as instructed by plugin vendor.

# Add a default signing key referencing the remote key identifier, and the plugin associated with it.
notation key add --default --name <key_name> --plugin <plugin_name> --id <remote_key_id>

# sign a blob
notation blob sign /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

An example for a successful signing:

```console
$ notation blob sign /tmp/my-blob.bin
Successfully signed /tmp/my-blob.bin

> Signature file written to /tmp/my-blob.bin.sig.jws

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Signature file written to /absolute/path/to/cwd/my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

```

### Sign a blob by generating the signature in a particular directory
```console
$ notation blob sign --signature-directory /tmp/xyz/sigs /tmp/my-blob.bin
Successfully signed /tmp/my-blob.bin
Signature file written to /tmp/xyz/sigs/my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

### Sign a blob using a relative path
```console
$ notation blob sign ./relative/path/my-blob.bin
Successfully signed ./relative/path/my-blob.bin
Signature file written to /absolute/path/to/cwd/my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

### Sign a blob with a plugin

```shell
notation blob sign --plugin <plugin_name> --id <remote_key_id> /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

### Sign a blob using COSE signature format

```console
# Prerequisites:
# A default signing key is configured using CLI "notation key"

# Use option "--signature-format" to set the signature format to COSE.
$ notation blob sign --signature-format cose /tmp/my-blob.bin
Successfully signed /tmp/my-blob.bin

> Signature file written to /tmp/my-blob.bin.sig.cose

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Signature file written to /absolute/path/to/cwd/my-blob.bin.sig.cose
```

Usage:
  notation blob sign [flags] <blob_path>

Flags:
       --signature-directory string optional path where the blob signature needs to be placed (default: currently working directory) 
       --media-type string          optional media type of the blob (default: "application/octet-stream")
  -e,  --expiry duration            optional expiry that provides a "best by use" time for the blob. The duration is specified in minutes(m) and/or hours(h). For example: 12h, 30m, 3h20m
       --id string                  key id (required if --plugin is set). This is mutually exclusive with the --key flag
  -k,  --key string                 signing key name, for a key previously added to notation's key list. This is mutually exclusive with the --id and --plugin flags
       --plugin string              signing plugin name. This is mutually exclusive with the --key flag
       --plugin-config stringArray  {key}={value} pairs that are passed as it is to a plugin, refer plugin's documentation to set appropriate values.
       --signature-format string    signature envelope format, options: "jws", "cose" (default "jws")

>        --force                      skip user confirmation and force overwrite the existing blob signature file 

Reviewer 2: What's the real-world scenario of overwriting an existing blob signature file?

Author: An example : User provided wrong media-type or plugin first time and they want to correct it by re-running the `sign` command.

Author: @shizhMSFT Do you have any follow up questions on this? If not, can you please approve the PR?

Reviewer 2: > User provided wrong media-type or plugin first time and they want to correct it by re-running the sign command.

In that scenario, customers should delete the previous signature securely. Instead of overwriting, customers should use `shred` command to securely delete it (so that it cannot be recovered from file system) or even revoke the signature if it is already spread.

Author: What is your recommendation here?

Author: @shizhMSFT ^

Reviewer 2: I'd recommend treating "overwriting the existing blob signature file" as an error.

@priteshbandi @yizha1 @FeynmanZhou We also need a doc for guidance in case the customer mis-signed an artifact or a blob.

Author: I think this requires more conversation. I removed the "overwriting" feature for now. We can add it back if needed in the future.

  -v, --verbose               verbose mode
  -h, --help                  help for inspect
```

### notation blob policy

```text
Manage trust policy configuration for arbitrary blob signature verification.

Usage:
  notation blob policy [command]

Available Commands:
  import    import trust policy configuration from a JSON file
  show      show trust policy configuration

Flags:
  -h, --help   help for policy
```

### notation blob policy import

```text
Import blob trust policy configuration from a JSON file

Usage:
  notation blob policy import [flags] <file_path>

Flags:    
      --force     override the existing trust policy configuration, never prompt
  -h, --help      help for import
```

### notation blob policy show

```text
Show blob trust policy configuration

Usage:
  notation blob policy show [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help      help for show
```

### notation blob verify

```text
Verify a signature associated with a blob

Usage:
  notation blob verify [flags] --signature <signature_path> <blob_path>

Flags:
      --signature string      location of the blob signature file
      --media-type string     optional media type of the blob to verify

>       --policy-name string   optional policy name to verify against. If not provided, notation verifies against the global policy if it exists.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      --policy-name string    optional policy name to verify against. If not provided, notation verifies against the global policy if it exists.
```

      --plugin-config stringArray   {key}={value} pairs that are passed as it is to a plugin, if the verification is associated with a verification plugin, refer plugin documentation to set appropriate values
  -o, --output string         output format, options: 'json', 'text' (default "text")
  -d, --debug                 debug mode
  -v, --verbose               verbose mode
  -h, --help                  help for inspect
```

## Usage

## Produce blob signatures

### Sign a blob by adding a new key

```shell
# Prerequisites:
# - A signing plugin is installed. See plugin documentation (https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/plugin-extensibility.md) for more details.
# - Configure the signing plugin as instructed by plugin vendor.

# Add a default signing key referencing the remote key identifier, and the plugin associated with it.
notation key add --default --name <key_name> --plugin <plugin_name> --id <remote_key_id>

# sign a blob
notation blob sign /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

An example for a successful signing:

```console

> $ notation blob sign /tmp/my-blob.bin

Reviewer 2: I'm wondering why all examples are signing a file with an _absolute_ path? Can `notation blob sign/verify` take a _relative_ path?

Author: Relative paths should be supported. Its just that there were not called out explicitly. Added couple of examples for sign and verify.

Successfully signed /tmp/my-blob.bin

> Signature file written to ./my-blob.bin.sig.jws

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Signature file written to my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

```

### Sign a blob by generating the signature in a particular directory

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```console
```

$ notation blob sign --signature-directory /tmp/xyz/sigs /tmp/my-blob.bin
Successfully signed /tmp/my-blob.bin
Signature file written to /tmp/xyz/sigs/my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

### Sign a blob and skip user confirmations when overwriting existing signature

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```console
```

$ notation blob sign --force /tmp/my-blob.bin
Successfully signed /tmp/my-blob.bin

> Signature file overwritten to ./my-blob.bin.sig.jws

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Signature file overwritten to my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

```

### Sign a blob with a plugin

```shell
notation blob sign --plugin <plugin_name> --id <remote_key_id> /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

### Sign a blob using COSE signature format

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```console
```

# Prerequisites:
# A default signing key is configured using CLI "notation key"

# Use option "--signature-format" to set the signature format to COSE.

> notation blob sign --signature-format cose /tmp/my-blob.bin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ notation blob sign --signature-format cose /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

- Policy "wildcard-verification-policy" is for auditing verification results when user wants to apply a wildcard policy by not providing `--policy-name` argument in `notation blob verify` command.

```jsonc
{
    "version": "1.0",
    "trustPolicies": [
        {
            "name": "wabbit-networks-policy",
            "signatureVerification": {
                "level": "strict"
            },
            "trustStores": [ 
              "ca:wabbit-networks",
            ],
            "trustedIdentities": [
                "x509.subject: C=US, ST=WA, L=Seattle, O=wabbit-networks.io, OU=Security Tools"
            ]
        },
        {
            "name": "skip-verification-policy",
            "signatureVerification": {
              "level" : "skip" 
            }
        },
        {
            "name": "wildcard-verification-policy",
            "wildcardPolicy": true,
            "signatureVerification": {
              "level" : "audit"
            },
            "trustStores": ["ca:acme-rockets"],
            "trustedIdentities": ["*"]
        }
    ]
}
```

## Outline

### notation blob command

```text

> Sign, inspect, and verify signatures and setup trust policies.

Author: Better

Usage:
  notation blob [command]

Available Commands:
  inspect   inspect a signature associated with a blob

>   policy    manage trust policy configuration file for signed blobs

Author: Sure

Flags:
  -o, --output string         output format, options: 'json', 'text' (default "text")
  -d, --debug                 debug mode
  -v, --verbose               verbose mode
  -h, --help                  help for inspect
```

### notation blob policy

```text
Manage trust policy configuration for arbitrary blob signature verification.

Usage:
  notation blob policy [command]

Available Commands:
  import    import trust policy configuration from a JSON file
  show      show trust policy configuration

Flags:
  -h, --help   help for policy
```

### notation blob policy import

```text
Import blob trust policy configuration from a JSON file

Usage:
  notation blob policy import [flags] <file_path>

Flags:    
      --force     override the existing trust policy configuration, never prompt
  -h, --help      help for import
```

### notation blob policy show

```text
Show blob trust policy configuration

Usage:
  notation blob policy show [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help      help for show
```

### notation blob verify

```text
Verify a signature associated with a blob

Usage:
  notation blob verify [flags] --signature <signature_path> <blob_path>

Flags:

>   -s, --signature string      location of the blob signature file

Author: Resolving as I think this is not a big concern.

>   -s, --signature string      location of the blob signature file

Reviewer 6: Do we truly require a shorthand for --signature string? If not, IMO we should lean towards dropping it.

notation blob sign --user-metadata io.wabbit-networks.buildId=123 --user-metadata io.wabbit-networks.buildTime=1672944615 /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

### Sign a blob and specify the media type for the blob

```shell
notation blob sign --media-type <media type> /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

### Sign a blob and specify the signature expiry duration, for example 24 hours

```shell
notation blob sign --expiry 24h /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

### Sign a blob using a specified signing key

```shell
# List signing keys to get the key name
notation key list

# Sign a container image using the specified key name
notation blob sign --key <key_name> /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

## Inspect blob signatures

### Display details of the given blob signature and its associated certificate properties

```text
notation blob inspect [flags] /tmp/my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

### Inspect the given blob signature

```shell
# Prerequisites: Signatures is produced by notation blob sign command
notation blob inspect /tmp/my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

An example output:
```shell
Inspecting /tmp/my-blob.bin.sig.jws
/tmp/my-blob.bin.sig.jws
└── application/octet-stream

>     ├── sha256:aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa

Author: Good catch

### Show blob trust policies

Use the following command to show trust policy configuration:

```shell
notation blob policy show
```

Upon successful execution, the trust policy configuration is printed out to standard output. If trust policy is not configured or is malformed, users should receive an error message via standard error output, and a tip to import trust policy configuration from a JSON file.

### Export blob trust policy configuration into a JSON file

Users can redirect the output of command `notation blob policy show` to a JSON file.

```shell
notation blob policy show > ./blob_trust_policy.json
```

### Update trust policy configuration

The steps to update blob trust policy configuration:

1. Export trust policy configuration into a JSON file.

   ```shell
   notation blob policy show > ./blob_trust_policy.json
   ```

2. Edit the exported JSON file "blob_trust_policy.json", update trust policy configuration and save the file.
3. Import trust policy configuration from the file.

   ```shell

>    notation blob policy import ./blob_trust_policy.json

Author: Not necessarily. If force is not given, notation will just prompt the user.

   ```

## Verify blob signatures
The `notation blob verify` command can be used to verify blob signatures. In order to verify signatures, user will need to setup a trust policy file `trustpolicy.blob.json` with Policies for blobs. Below are two examples of how a policy configuration file can be setup for verifying blob signatures.

- The Policy named "wabbit-networks-policy" is for verifying blob artifacts signed by Wabbit Networks.

> - Policy "wildcard-verification-policy" is for auditing verification results when user wants to apply a wildcard policy by not providing `--policy-name` argument in `notation blob verify` command.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Policy named "wildcard-verification-policy" is for auditing verification results when user doesn't not provides `--policy-name` argument in `notation blob verify` command.
```

```jsonc
{
    "version": "1.0",
    "trustPolicies": [
        {
            "name": "wabbit-networks-policy",
            "signatureVerification": {
                "level": "strict"
            },
            "trustStores": [ 
              "ca:wabbit-networks",
            ],
            "trustedIdentities": [
                "x509.subject: C=US, ST=WA, L=Seattle, O=wabbit-networks.io, OU=Security Tools"
            ]
        },
        {
            "name": "wildcard-verification-policy",
            "wildcardPolicy": true,
            "signatureVerification": {
              "level" : "audit"
            },
            "trustStores": ["ca:acme-rockets"],
            "trustedIdentities": ["*"]
        }
    ]
}
```

### Verify the signature of a blob

Configure trust store and trust policy properly before using `notation blob verify` command.

```shell

> # Prerequisites: Signature is produced on the filesystem from `notation blob sign` command.

Reviewer 6: the signature might have been generate at other place or could have been generated using another notation-compatible tool.
```suggestion
# Prerequisites: Blob and its associated signature is present on the filesystem.
```

# Configure trust store by adding a certificate file into trust store named "wabbit-network" of type "ca"
notation certificate add --type ca --store wabbit-networks wabbit-networks.crt

> # Create a JSON file named "trustpolicy.blob.json" under directory "{NOTATION_CONFIG}".

Reviewer 6: Missing command for this?

Author: Not a command. This is setting up the policy file, which is out of scope for this example. I clarified the language a bit so that it is clear.

Users can use `notation blob policy` command to manage trust policies for signed blob verification. The `notation blob policy` command provides a user-friendly way to manage trust policies for signed blobs. It allows users to show trust policy configuration, import/export a trust policy configuration file from/to a JSON file. For more details, see [blob trust policy specification and examples](https://github.com/notaryproject/specifications/blob/main/specs/trust-store-trust-policy.md#blob-trust-policy).

User can refer to the below trust policy configuration sample `trustpolicy.blob.json` that is applicable for verifying signed arbitrary blobs using `notation blob verify` command. In this sample, there are three policies configured for different requirements:

- The Policy named "wabbit-networks-policy" is for verifying blob artifacts signed by Wabbit Networks.
- Policy named "skip-verification-policy" is for skipping verification on blob artifacts.
- Policy "wildcard-verification-policy" is for auditing verification results when user wants to apply a wildcard policy by not providing `--policy-name` argument in `notation blob verify` command.

```jsonc
{
    "version": "1.0",

>     "policyType": "blob",

Author: 1. I included `policyType` so that `policy export`, `policy import` commands can understand what policy types they are dealing with. But in retrospect, this flag causes some confusion (as we do not want to make any breaking changes to the OCI policies). That being said, I will move this field.
2. Added a bunch of policy examples in https://github.com/notaryproject/specifications/pull/283/files

    "trustPolicies": [
        {
            "name": "wabbit-networks-policy",
            "signatureVerification": {
                "level": "strict"
            },
            "trustStores": [ 
              "ca:wabbit-networks",
            ],
            "trustedIdentities": [
                "x509.subject: C=US, ST=WA, L=Seattle, O=wabbit-networks.io, OU=Security Tools"
            ]
        },
        {
            "name": "skip-verification-policy",
            "signatureVerification": {
              "level" : "skip" 
            }
        },
        {
            "name": "wildcard-verification-policy",
            "wildcardPolicy": true,
            "signatureVerification": {
              "level" : "audit"
            },
            "trustStores": ["ca:acme-rockets"],
            "trustedIdentities": ["*"]
        }
    ]
}
```

## Outline

### notation blob command

```text

> Sign, inspect, and verify signatures associated with arbitrary blobs.

Author: Sure

Usage:
  notation blob [command]

Available Commands:
  inspect   inspect a signature associated with a blob
  policy    manage trust policy configuration file for signed blobs
  sign      produce a detached signature for a given blob
  verify    verify a signature associated with a blob

Flags:
  -h, --help   help for blob
```

### notation blob sign

```text
Produce a signature for a given blob. A detached signature file will be written to the currently working directory with blob file name + ".sig" + signature format as the file extension. For example, signature file name for "myBlob.bin" will be "myBlob.bin.sig.jws" for JWS signature format or "myBlob.bin.sig.cose" for COSE signature format.

Usage:
  notation blob sign [flags] <blob_path>

Flags:

>   --signature-directory string optional path where the blob signature needs to be placed (default: currently working directory) 

Reviewer: Could we simplify the flag name since it may be used very frequently? For example, `-D`.

Author: `-d` conflicts with debug flag. We decided in one of the earlier threads to drop the short-hand flag.

   ```

## Verify blob signatures
The `notation blob verify` command can be used to verify blob signatures. In order to verify signatures, user will need to setup a trust policy file `trustpolicy.blob.json` with Policies for blobs. Below are two examples of how a policy configuration file can be setup for verifying blob signatures.

- The Policy named "wabbit-networks-policy" is for verifying blob artifacts signed by Wabbit Networks.
- Policy "wildcard-verification-policy" is for auditing verification results when user wants to apply a wildcard policy by not providing `--policy-name` argument in `notation blob verify` command.

```jsonc
{
    "version": "1.0",
    "policyType": "blob",
    "trustPolicies": [
        {
            "name": "wabbit-networks-policy",
            "signatureVerification": {
                "level": "strict"
            },
            "trustStores": [ 
              "ca:wabbit-networks",
            ],
            "trustedIdentities": [
                "x509.subject: C=US, ST=WA, L=Seattle, O=wabbit-networks.io, OU=Security Tools"
            ]
        },
        {
            "name": "wildcard-verification-policy",

>             "wildcardPolicy": true,

Reviewer: Will there only be one wildcard policy?

Author: Correct. Just like OCI policies, there can only be one wildcard policy for blob policies

# - Configure the signing plugin as instructed by plugin vendor.

# Add a default signing key referencing the remote key identifier, and the plugin associated with it.
notation key add --default --name <key_name> --plugin <plugin_name> --id <remote_key_id>

# sign a blob
notation blob sign /tmp/my-blob.bin
```

An example for a successful signing:

```console
$ notation blob sign /tmp/my-blob.bin
Successfully signed /tmp/my-blob.bin
Signature file written to /tmp/my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

### Sign a blob by generating the signature in a particular directory
```console
$ notation blob sign --signature-directory /tmp/xyz/sigs /tmp/my-blob.bin
Successfully signed /tmp/my-blob.bin
Signature file written to /tmp/xyz/sigs/my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

### Sign a blob using a relative path
```console
$ notation blob sign ./relative/path/my-blob.bin
Successfully signed ./relative/path/my-blob.bin
Signature file written to ./relative/path/my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

### Sign a blob and skip user confirmations when overwriting existing signature
```console
$ notation blob sign --force /tmp/my-blob.bin
Successfully signed /tmp/my-blob.bin
Signature file overwritten to /tmp/my-blob.bin.sig.jws

> ```

Reviewer 2: Here comes the inconsistency.

The definition above
>        --signature-directory string optional path where the blob signature needs to be placed (default: currently working directory) 

states that the signature should be default written to the current working directory.

However, the above two examples are not (so as other examples).

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't it be

------

### Sign a blob using a relative path
```console
$ notation blob sign ./relative/path/my-blob.bin
Successfully signed ./relative/path/my-blob.bin
Signature file written to my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

### Sign a blob and skip user confirmations when overwriting existing signature
```console
$ notation blob sign --force /tmp/my-blob.bin
Successfully signed /tmp/my-blob.bin
Signature file overwritten to my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

------

or print the absolute path given the current working directory `/test`

### Sign a blob using a relative path
```console
$ notation blob sign ./relative/path/my-blob.bin
Successfully signed ./relative/path/my-blob.bin
Signature file written to /test/my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

### Sign a blob and skip user confirmations when overwriting existing signature
```console
$ notation blob sign --force /tmp/my-blob.bin
Successfully signed /tmp/my-blob.bin
Signature file overwritten to /test/my-blob.bin.sig.jws
```

Author: I like the absolute path option. Makes it less ambiguous. Will update with this.

### notation blob sign

```text
Produce a detached signature for a given blob. Signature file will be written to the currently working directory with blob file name + ".sig" + signature format as the file extension. For example, signature file name for "myBlob.bin" will be "myBlob.bin.sig.jws" for JWS signature format or "myBlob.bin.sig.cose" for COSE signature format.

Usage:
  notation blob sign [flags] <blob_path>

Flags:

>   -sd, --signature-directory string optional path where the blob signature needs to be placed (default: currently working directory) 

Reviewer 2: The short-hand `-sd` is not valid. It will be parsed as `-s` and `-d`.

Author: Will fix it. Thanks

Produce a detached signature for a given blob

Usage:
  notation blob sign [flags] -n my-blob-signature <blob_path>

Flags:

>   -n,  --signature-name string      friendly name for the detached signature. Signature file will be written to the currently working directory with this name plus ".sig" plus signature format as the file extension

Reviewer 2: Is `.sig` necessary? Can it be `mySignature.jws` or `mySignature.cose`?

Author: Not necessary but good to have to indicate that it is a signature file. Not all users of notation know that notation uses jws or cose. If we do not add `.sig` and user doesn't know anything about jws/cose (which the most of the userbase is), then it can be confusing as to why notation created the files with jws/cose extension.

>   -n,  --signature-name string      friendly name for the detached signature. Signature file will be written to the currently working directory with this name plus ".sig" plus signature format as the file extension

Reviewer 2: Can `--signature-name` be optional? Basically, the signature filename can be default to `<blob_path>.<type>`.

For example, `notation blob sign hello.tar` generates `hello.tar.jws` like `gzip hello.tar` generates `hello.tar.gz`.

Author: See https://github.com/notaryproject/notation/pull/811#discussion_r1384163309

Reviewer 5: If users don't define a unique signature name, they might be hard to find signatures if there are multiple signatures generated in the same file path.

Author: @FeynmanZhou 

Per https://github.com/notaryproject/notation/pull/811#discussion_r1384262523, we are moving away from users choosing signature names.
